@table @b
@item Synopsis
@b{gmerlin_player} @i{[options] gml...
}@*
@item Description
Commandline Multimedia player
@*
@item Options
@table @i
@item -oa <audio_output_options>
Set audio output options@*
@table @r
@item @b{p}=option[@{suboptions@}]@*@*
Supported options: oa_alsa oa_pulse oa_oss oa_esd@*@*
Default: oa_alsa@*@*
Audio output plugin@*@*
@b{Suboptions for p=oa_alsa}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{card}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: default hw:0,0 hw:0,1@*@*
Default: default@*@*
Card@*@*
@item @b{surround40}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Enable 4.0 Surround@*@*
Use the surround 4.0 (aka quadrophonic) device
@*@*
@item @b{surround41}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Enable 4.1 Surround@*@*
Use the surround 4.1 device
@*@*
@item @b{surround50}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Enable 5.0 Surround@*@*
Use the surround 5.0 device
@*@*
@item @b{surround51}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Enable 5.1 Surround@*@*
Use the surround 5.1 device
@*@*
@item @b{user_device}=<string>@*@*
User device@*@*
Enter a custom device to use for playback. Leave empty to use the
settings above
@*@*
@item @b{buffer_time}=<number> (10..10000, default: 1000)@*@*
Buffer time@*@*
Set the buffer time (in milliseconds). Larger values improve playback
performance on slow systems under load. Smaller values decrease the
latency of the volume control.
@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for p=oa_oss}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{multichannel_mode}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: none multidev creative@*@*
Default: none@*@*
Multichannel Mode@*@*
@item @b{device}=<string> (Default: /dev/dsp)@*@*
Device@*@*
@item @b{use_rear_device}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Use Rear Device@*@*
@item @b{rear_device}=<string> (Default: /dev/dsp1)@*@*
Rear Device@*@*
@item @b{use_center_lfe_device}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Use Center/LFE Device@*@*
@item @b{center_lfe_device}=<string> (Default: /dev/dsp2)@*@*
Center/LFE Device@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for p=oa_esd}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{esd_host}=<string>@*@*
Host (empty: local)@*@*
@end table
@end table

@item -ov <video_output_options>
Set video output options@*
@table @r
@item @b{p}=option[@{suboptions@}]@*@*
Supported options: ov_x11@*@*
Default: ov_x11@*@*
Video output plugin@*@*
@b{Suboptions for p=ov_x11}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{auto_resize}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Auto resize window@*@*
@item @b{disable_xscreensaver_normal}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Disable Screensaver for normal playback@*@*
@item @b{disable_xscreensaver_fullscreen}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Disable Screensaver for fullscreen playback@*@*
@item @b{force_hw_scale}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Force hardware scaling@*@*
Use hardware scaling even if it involves more CPU intensive pixelformat
conversions
@*@*
@item @b{scale_mode}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: auto nearest bilinear quadratic cubic_bspline cubic_mitchell cubic_catmull sinc_lanczos@*@*
Default: auto@*@*
Scale mode@*@*
Choose scaling method. Auto means to choose based on the conversion
quality. Nearest is fastest, Sinc with Lanczos window is slowest
@*@*
@item @b{scale_order}=<number> (4..1000, default: 4)@*@*
Scale order@*@*
Order for sinc scaling
@*@*
@item @b{scale_quality}=<number> (1..5, default: 2)@*@*
Scale quality@*@*
Scale quality
@*@*
@end table
@item @b{w}=<string>@*@*
Window ID@*@*
@end table

@item -i <input_plugin>
Set and configure input plugin@*
@table @r
@item @b{p}=option[@{suboptions@}]@*@*
Supported options: i_avdec i_cdaudio i_dvd i_vcd i_singlepic_stills i_lqt 
i_singlepic i_mikmod@*@*
Default: i_avdec@*@*
input plugin@*@*
@b{Suboptions for p=i_avdec}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{audio_dynrange}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Dynamic range control@*@*
Enable dynamic range control for codecs, which support this (currently
only A52 and DTS).
@*@*
@item @b{pp}=<number> (0..6, default: 1)@*@*
Postprocessing level@*@*
Set postprocessing (to remove compression artifacts). 0 means no
postprocessing, 6 means maximum postprocessing.
@*@*
@item @b{connect_timeout}=<number> (0..2000000, default: 5000)@*@*
Connect timeout (milliseconds)@*@*
@item @b{read_timeout}=<number> (0..2000000, default: 5000)@*@*
Read timeout (milliseconds)@*@*
@item @b{network_buffer_size}=<number> (1..1000, default: 32)@*@*
Network buffer size (kB)@*@*
@item @b{network_bandwidth}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: 14400 19200 28800 33600 34400 57600 115200 262200 393200 524300 1500000 10500000@*@*
Default: 524300@*@*
Bandwidth@*@*
@item @b{http_shoutcast_metadata}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Enable shoutcast title streaming@*@*
@item @b{http_use_proxy}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Use proxy@*@*
@item @b{http_proxy_host}=<string>@*@*
Proxy host@*@*
@item @b{http_proxy_port}=<number> (1..65535, default: 80)@*@*
Proxy port@*@*
@item @b{http_proxy_auth}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Proxy needs authentication@*@*
@item @b{http_proxy_user}=<string>@*@*
Proxy username@*@*
@item @b{http_proxy_pass}=<string>@*@*
Proxy password@*@*
@item @b{ftp_anonymous}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Login as anonymous@*@*
@item @b{ftp_anonymous_password}=<string> (Default: gates@@nanosoft.com)@*@*
Anonymous ftp password@*@*
@item @b{seek_subtitles}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: never video always@*@*
Default: never@*@*
Seek external subtitles@*@*
If the input is a regular file, gmerlin_avdecoder can scan the directory
for matching subtitle files. For a file movie.mpg, possible subtitle
files are e.g. movie_english.srt, movie_german.srt. The rule is, that
the first part of the filename of the subtitle file must be equal to the
movie filename up to the extension. Furthermore, the subtitle filename
must have an extension supported by any of the subtitle readers.
Subtitle seeking can be disabled, enabled for video files or enabled for
all files.
@*@*
@item @b{default_subtitle_encoding}=<string> (Default: LATIN1)@*@*
Default subtitle encoding@*@*
This sets the default encoding for text subtitles,when the original
encoding is unknown. It must be a character set namerecognized by iconv.
Type 'iconv -l' at the commandline for a list of supported encodings.
@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for p=i_cdaudio}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{trackname_template}=<string> (Default: %p - %t)@*@*
Trackname template@*@*
Template for track name generation from metadata@*
%p:    Artist@*
%a:    Album@*
%g:    Genre@*
%t:    Track name@*
%<d>n: Track number (d = number of digits, 1-9)@*
%y:    Year@*
%c:    Comment
@*@*
@item @b{use_cdtext}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Use CD-Text@*@*
Try to get CD metadata from CD-Text
@*@*
@item @b{use_local}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Use locally saved metadata@*@*
Whenever we obtain CD metadata from the internet, we save them into
$HOME/.gmerlin/cdaudio_metadata. If you got wrong metadata for a CD,
disabling this option will retrieve the metadata again and overwrite the
saved data.
@*@*
@item @b{use_musicbrainz}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Use Musicbrainz@*@*
@item @b{musicbrainz_host}=<string> (Default: mm.musicbrainz.org)@*@*
Server@*@*
@item @b{musicbrainz_port}=<number> (1..65535, default: 80)@*@*
Port@*@*
@item @b{musicbrainz_proxy_host}=<string>@*@*
Proxy@*@*
Proxy server (leave empty for direct connection)
@*@*
@item @b{musicbrainz_proxy_port}=<number> (1..65535, default: 80)@*@*
Proxy Port@*@*
Proxy port
@*@*
@item @b{use_cddb}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Use Cddb@*@*
@item @b{cddb_host}=<string> (Default: freedb.org)@*@*
Server@*@*
@item @b{cddb_port}=<number> (1..65535, default: 80)@*@*
Port@*@*
@item @b{cddb_path}=<string> (Default: /~cddb/cddb.cgi)@*@*
Path@*@*
@item @b{cddb_proxy_host}=<string>@*@*
Proxy@*@*
Proxy server (leave empty for direct connection)
@*@*
@item @b{cddb_proxy_port}=<number> (1..65535, default: 80)@*@*
Proxy Port@*@*
Proxy port
@*@*
@item @b{cddb_proxy_user}=<string>@*@*
Proxy username@*@*
User name for proxy (leave empty for poxies, which don't require
authentication)
@*@*
@item @b{cddb_proxy_pass}=<string>@*@*
Proxy password@*@*
Password for proxy
@*@*
@item @b{cddb_timeout}=<number> (0..1000, default: 10)@*@*
Timeout@*@*
Timeout (in seconds) for connections to the CDDB server
@*@*
@item @b{cdparanoia_speed}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: Auto 4 8 16 32@*@*
Default: Auto@*@*
Speed@*@*
@item @b{cdparanoia_max_retries}=<number> (0..200, default: 20)@*@*
Maximum retries@*@*
Maximum number of retries, 0 = infinite
@*@*
@item @b{cdparanoia_disable_paranoia}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Disable paranoia@*@*
Disable all data verification and correction features.
@*@*
@item @b{cdparanoia_disable_extra_paranoia}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Disable extra paranoia@*@*
Disables intra-read data verification; only overlap checking atread
boundaries is performed. It can wedge if errors  occur  in the attempted
overlap area. Not recommended.
@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for p=i_dvd}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{dvd_chapters_as_tracks}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Handle chapters as tracks@*@*
@item @b{audio_dynrange}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Dynamic range control@*@*
Enable dynamic range control for codecs, which support this (currently
only A52 and DTS).
@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for p=i_singlepic_stills}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{display_time}=@{[[HH:]MM:]SS@} (default: 0:00)@*@*
Seconds can be fractional (i.e. with decimal point)
Display time@*@*
Time to pass until the next track will be selected. 0 means infinite.
@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for p=i_lqt}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ac}=@{option[@{suboptions@}][:option[@{suboptions@}]...]@}@*@*
Supported options: ima4 rawaudio twos ulaw sowt alaw in24 in32 fl32 fl64 
lpcm faad2 ffmpeg_mp3 ffmpeg_mp2 ffmpeg_ac3 ffmpeg_qdm2 ffmpeg_alac 
ffmpeg_adpcm_ms ffmpeg_ima_adpcm_wav vorbis vorbis_qt

Audio Codecs@*@*
Sort and configure audio codecs
@*@*
@item @b{vc}=@{option[@{suboptions@}][:option[@{suboptions@}]...]@}@*@*
Supported options: rtjpeg raw v308 v408 v410 yuv2 yuv4 yv12 2vuy v210 
png ffmpeg_mpg1 ffmpeg_mpg4 ffmpeg_msmpeg4v1 ffmpeg_msmpeg4v2 
ffmpeg_msmpeg4v3 ffmpeg_h263 ffmpeg_h264 ffmpeg_i263 ffmpeg_svq1 
ffmpeg_svq3 ffmpeg_mjpg ffmpeg_mjpegb ffmpeg_TGA ffmpeg_TIFF 
ffmpeg_8BPS ffmpeg_indeo ffmpeg_rpza ffmpeg_smc ffmpeg_cinepak 
ffmpeg_cyuv ffmpeg_rle ffmpeg_wrle ffmpeg_dv_ntsc ffmpeg_dv_pal 
ffmpeg_dv_avi ffmpeg_dv50_pal ffmpeg_dv50_ntsc ffmpeg_ffvhuff jpeg 
mjpa

Video Codecs@*@*
Sort and configure video codecs
@*@*
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_mpg1}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_mpg4}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_msmpeg4v1}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_msmpeg4v2}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_msmpeg4v3}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_h263}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_h264}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_i263}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_svq1}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_svq3}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_mjpg}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_indeo}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_cinepak}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_cyuv}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_dv_ntsc}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_dv_pal}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_dv_avi}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_dv50_pal}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_dv50_ntsc}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for ffmpeg_ffvhuff}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{ff_flag_gray}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Grayscale mode@*@*
@end table
@end table
@b{Suboptions for p=i_singlepic}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{timescale}=<number> (1..100000, default: 25)@*@*
Timescale@*@*
@item @b{frame_duration}=<number> (1..100000, default: 1)@*@*
Frame duration@*@*
@end table
@b{Suboptions for p=i_mikmod}@*@*
@table @r
@item @b{output}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: mono8 stereo8 mono16 stereo16@*@*
Default: stereo16@*@*
Output format@*@*
@item @b{mixing_frequency}=<number> (4000..60000, default: 44100)@*@*
Samplerate@*@*
@item @b{hidden}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Look for hidden patterns in module@*@*
@item @b{sur}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Use surround mixing@*@*
@item @b{fade}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Force volume fade at the end of module@*@*
@item @b{interpol}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Use interpolate mixing@*@*
@end table
@end table

@item -aud <audio_options>
Set audio processing options@*
@table @r
@item @b{force_float}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Force floating point@*@*
Force floating point processing. This will inprove the quality but might
slow things down.
@*@*
@item @b{q}=<number> (1..5, default: 2)@*@*
Conversion Quality@*@*
Set the conversion quality for format conversions. Lower quality means more
speed. Values above 3 enable slow high quality calculations.
@*@*
@item @b{dither_mode}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: auto none rect tri shaped@*@*
Default: auto@*@*
Dither mode@*@*
Dither mode. Auto means to use the quality level. Subsequent options are
ordered by increasing quality (i.e. decreasing speed).
@*@*
@item @b{fixed_samplerate}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Fixed samplerate@*@*
If disabled, the output samplerate is taken from the source. If enabled, the
samplerate you specify below us used.
@*@*
@item @b{samplerate}=<number> (8000..192000, default: 44100)@*@*
Samplerate@*@*
Fixed output samplerate
@*@*
@item @b{resample_mode}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: auto linear zoh sinc_fast sinc_medium sinc_best@*@*
Default: auto@*@*
Resample mode@*@*
Resample mode. Auto means to use the quality level. Subsequent options are
ordered by increasing quality (i.e. decreasing speed).
@*@*
@item @b{fixed_channel_setup}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Fixed channel setup@*@*
If disabled, the output channel configuration is taken from the source. If
enabled, the setup you specify below us used.
@*@*
@item @b{num_front_channels}=<number> (1..5, default: 2)@*@*
Front channels@*@*
@item @b{num_rear_channels}=<number> (0..3, default: 0)@*@*
Rear channels@*@*
@item @b{num_lfe_channels}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
LFE@*@*
@item @b{front_to_rear}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: mute copy diff@*@*
Default: copy@*@*
Front to rear mode@*@*
Mix mode when the output format has rear channels, but the source doesn't.
@*@*
@item @b{stereo_to_mono}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: left right mix@*@*
Default: mix@*@*
Stereo to mono mode@*@*
Mix mode when downmixing Stereo to Mono.
@*@*
@end table

@item -vid <video_options>
Set video processing options@*
@table @r
@item @b{q}=<number> (1..5, default: 2)@*@*
Conversion Quality@*@*
Set the conversion quality for format conversions. Lower quality means more
speed. Values above 3 enable slow high quality calculations.
@*@*
@item @b{alpha_mode}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: ignore blend_color@*@*
Default: ignore@*@*
Alpha mode@*@*
This option is used if the source has an alpha (=transparency) channel, but
the output supports no transparency. Either, the transparency is ignored, or
the background color you specify below is blended in.
@*@*
@item @b{background_color}=<r>,<g>,<b> (default: 0.000,0.000,0.000)@*@*
<r>, <g> and <b> are in the range 0.0..1.0
Background color@*@*
Background color to use, when alpha mode above is "Blend background color".
@*@*
@item @b{sm}=[1|0] (default: 0)@*@*
Resample chroma@*@*
Always perform chroma resampling if chroma subsampling factors or chroma
placements are different. Usually, this is only done for qualities above 3.
@*@*
@item @b{still_framerate}=<number> (1.00..100.00, default: 10.00)@*@*
Still image framerate@*@*
Set framerate width which still images will be redisplayed periodically
@*@*
@end table

@item -inopt <input_options>
Set generic input options@*
@table @r
@item @b{do_bypass}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Enable bypass mode@*@*
Use input plugins in bypass mode if they support it (Currently only the
audio CD player). This dramatically decreases CPU usage but doesn't work on
all hardware setups.
@*@*
@item @b{still_framerate}=<number> (0..100, default: 10)@*@*
Still image repitition rate@*@*
When showing still images, gmerlin repeats them periodically to make
realtime filter tweaking work.
@*@*
@end table

@item -osd <osd_options>
Set OSD options@*
@table @r
@item @b{enable_osd}=[1|0] (default: 1)@*@*
Enable OSD@*@*
@item @b{font_size}=<number> (12.00..100.00, default: 30.00)@*@*
Size@*@*
Specify fontsize for OSD. The value you enter, is for an image width of 640.
For other widths, the value will be scaled
@*@*
@item @b{color}=<r>,<g>,<b>,<a> (default: 1.000,1.000,1.000,1.000)@*@*
<r>, <g>, <b> and <a> are in the range 0.0..1.0
Foreground color@*@*
@item @b{border_color}=<r>,<g>,<b> (default: 0.000,0.000,0.000)@*@*
<r>, <g> and <b> are in the range 0.0..1.0
Border color@*@*
@item @b{border_width}=<number> (0.00..10.00, default: 2.00)@*@*
Border width@*@*
@item @b{justify_h}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: center left right@*@*
Default: center@*@*
Horizontal justify@*@*
@item @b{justify_v}=<string>@*@*
Supported strings: center top bottom@*@*
Default: center@*@*
Vertical justify@*@*
@item @b{border_left}=<number> (0..65535, default: 10)@*@*
Left border@*@*
Distance from the left text border to the image border
@*@*
@item @b{border_right}=<number> (0..65535, default: 10)@*@*
Left border@*@*
Distance from the right text border to the image border
@*@*
@item @b{border_top}=<number> (0..65535, default: 10)@*@*
Top border@*@*
Distance from the top text border to the image border
@*@*
@item @b{border_bottom}=<number> (0..65535, default: 10)@*@*
Bottom border@*@*
Distance from the bottom text border to the image border
@*@*
@item @b{duration}=<number> (0..10000, default: 2000)@*@*
Duration (milliseconds)@*@*
@end table

@item -nt
Disable time display@*

@item -vol <volume>
Set volume in dB (max: 0.0)@*

@item -v level
Set verbosity level (0..4)@*

@item -tracks <track_spec>
<track_spec> can be a ranges mixed with comma separated tracks@*

@end table
@item Generic options
The following generic options are available for all gmerlin applications@*
@table @i
@item -help
Print this help message and exit@*

@item -help-man
Print this help message as a manual page and exit@*

@item -help-texi
Print this help message in texinfo format and exit@*

@item -version
Print version info and exit@*

@end table
@item Files
@table @file
@item ~/.gmerlin/plugins.xml
Cache of the plugin registry (shared by all applicatons)@*
@item ~/.gmerlin/generic/config.xml
Default plugin parameters are read from there. Use gmerlin_plugincfg to change them.@*
@end table
@end table
